Let's look at what a test is.
So here's what it looks like.
I'm actually just gonna walk through it
versus just trying to tell you what it is.
So let's just make one.
I'm going to go into our handlers.
I'm gonna make a new folder, and
I'm gonna call it __tests__.
Why did I call it that?
That's one of the default folder
names that just it looks for, so
I called it that.
I think you can also just call it tests,
maybe even specs, so
many different names that it looks for.
I just don't remember which one you
have to tell it to versus which ones
are the defaults anymore.
I just know for sure that this is
a default one that it looks for, so
I'm calling it that.
You may also just wanna put all your tests
on the route somewhere and just have all
your tests there versus having your
test live next to what you're testing.
My mood changes a lot.
Today, I feel like putting the test near
where the things that I'm testing, so
I'll have to write long import statements.
That's literally the only reason.
[LAUGH] Otherwise,
I might put them all down here.
I don't know, I just don't feel like
writing long dot, dot, slash, dot, dot,
slash, dot, dot stuff today,
so I'm not doing it.
Okay, so let's write a test for,
I don't know, users.
Let's do that.
So I'll say user.test.ts.
Those icons are pretty dope.
I like those icons.
So in the flavor of,
did Mocha come before Jasmine?.
It's been so long, I can't remember.
I think Mocha came before for Jasmine.
Maybe Jasmine before,
in the flavor of Mocha and Jasmine,
Jest has adopted this really cool
syntax that we in the JavaScript
community have come to love
when it comes to testing.
And the way it looks is
something like this.
So you can say describe, and
these will all be globals,
because we're gonna be running the test
in the context of the jest environment.
And that jest environment are going to
inject these functions that we're using
globally.
So don't have to import any of
this stuff that we're using.
They're gonna be given to us at runtime,
they're gonna be injected into the code.
So describe is just an organizational
function you can use to describe,
I don't know, think of it like
the module that you're testing,
maybe the file that you're testing.
In this case,
we're testing the user handler, okay?
So I'm gonna put that there, and
then I can give it a callback function.
And then for each thing that I wanna test,
I mean I can even add more describe
if I want to, but I don't have to.
But for each thing that I wanna test,
I can either do something called it,
not the clown, but the word.
Or I can do something like test,
I'm just gonna say it.
And the reason I say it
because it reads better.
So usually, it goes something like this,
you can say,
it( should do something when
something happens), right?
You would put a description like that,
whatever it is,
the thing that you're about the test
right now, the specific condition of
what is it you're about to test,
that's what you would write.
This doesn't functionally
change anything about the test.
But when you visually see it in output,
you'll know what tests failed or
what passed based off of these
descriptions and these blocks here.
So try to actually put some
intention in those words.
And you put a callback here.
And then I can use this built-in
really cool function called expect.
And I can write my assertions, I can say,
I expect 1 to be 1, right?
1 is 1, so this should pass.
So now, To actually run this test,
we just need to tell just to do it.
So I'm gonna go into, Package json.
We got this test script here, I'm gonna
get rid of all of its contents, and
I was gonna say jest.
Okay, And
then to run the test,
I can just say npm test.
And just like that, jest went and
found the test because of the folder,
that name that I created.
You can see it's pointing
to the file here.
User handler is what I put
in the describe block.
So this is why I said it's just for
organizing.
And then here is the actual
assertion that I ran.
And the green check just means that it
passed, the word passed means I passed.
And here are just more information
about all the tests I ran.
I ran one test Suite.
A suite is basically a describe block.
And then each time there was
an it function, that's a test.
So I ran one suite with one test,
and they all passed.
Right, so an example of a failing
test would be something like, well,
I expect that to be 2.
Okay, well, that's not 2, that's 1 right?
And it'll tell you,
it'll say, user handler should do
something when something happens.
We received this thing in red,
which was 1,
But we expected it to be 2.
So those things don't work,
1 is not 2, so it failed.
Any questions on the unit test?
>> So you just typed jest in the terminal?
>> If you go to your terminal and type
in jest, you'll probably get an error,
because-
>> So where did you do that?
>> Yeah, good question, so actually,
this brings up a really good point.
If you install a CLI
into your application,
just like we did, just as a CLI.
>> Okay.
>> But
we installed it locally into our project.
We didn't install it globally onto our
computer, so we can't actually just
type in just like this,
because we didn't globally install it.
We locally installed it, so we'd have to
do something like node_modules, right?
We have to do that, I think I talked
about it earlier in the course.
So if you wanna actually use it,
the package json is really smart.
So I added it here in scripts test.
And npm is actually
smart to know that like,
if you have just installed
locally in here, which we do,
it'll use the local one, but
if you don't, it'll use the global one.
Whereas the terminal is not that smart,
your terminal is not gonna
know that you have something called
jest installed in this project.
It's actually looking on the root of
your computer for it, in the bin folder.
So it won't work here,
unless you install it globally.
So yeah, you can put it here and
then you can just say npm test.
Fun fact, test and start are the only
commands in npm that you don't have to
put the word run in front of.
Every other command, you gotta put
npm run dev or npm run whatever, but
not test and start,
you can just say npm test, npm start.
I don't know, somebody made that up.